# CS 2130 - N-Queens-Problem

This program calculates solutions to the N-queens problem for several values and instances of N. The problem is a classic logic puzzle in which N number of queens are placed onto a chessboard the size of N rows by N columns. The goal is to find a proper placement for the queens on the board so that none of the queens are in danger of being attacked by another queen. In other words, each queen must be placed on the NxN board so that no queen shares the same horizontal row, vertical column, or diagonal row with each other. An array of queens is used to store the valid positions for queens on the board. For instance, if queens[4] == 3, then that means there is a queen placed on the 5th row in the 4th column (because array indexes start @ 0, the actual row and column are 1 value higher than the index and value of the array). There are two separate methods for finding the solution to the N-Queens problem, a brute force method and a backtracking method. However, they both share the boolean isValid function to check whether the position in the NxN array of the chessboard is a valid position to place a Queen in. It uses a nested for loop using integer variables i and j to iterate through the two-dimensional array representing the chessboard, plugging i and j into the queens array as index values in order to compare the queen's positions with each other. It first checks that i != j to avoid placing queens in the same row. It then checks that queens[i] != queens[j] to avoid placing queens in the same column. It then performs a check to verify that the queens are not in the same diagonal row as each other. If it passes all checks, then the current position is a valid spot to place a queen and the queens integer array is updated. The program uses this in two different functions, one which backtracks to previous queen placements if we arrive at an invalid  position, and one which simply brute forces the solution without any backtracking. It then times how long each method takes to find the correct placements on the chessboard and displays them for comparison. Both functions rely on recursive function calls to work. As one would expect, the backtracking function is more time efficient and has a smaller Big Oh time complexity. The big oh time complexity of the backtracking method is N^2, while the big oh time complexity for the brute force algorithm is N^N as it has to test every possible combination of queen placements on the NxN-sized chessboard to arrive at the solution.
